# advent-of-code

2023 - missed a few days, going back to it in 2025 now that I have a better grasp of Python

Jan 17 2025:

- Day 10: Figured out a better way to walk around the pipe and look for points that are "inside" and finally solved part 2
- Day 12: Again, it asks for a COUNT, not a SOLUTION!
- Day 13: I think I just hadn't gotten to this last time around. Took some time to "pythonize" the search for reflections, and smudging the mirror was pretty straightforward. The main bug was that I was stopping when I found a reflection line; so if the old reflection was still valid, and showed up before the new reflection, I wouldn't find the new one.
- Day 17: Finally got a working solution for part 1 using a modified Dijkstra, where each (point, facing) tuple is a "node", and neighbors are 1, 2 or 3 steps to the right or the left of each point. That way we won't backtrack, and won't go more than 3 steps in a given direction. Took 231 seconds. Then updated to use A\* modified for (point, facing) and same neighbor logic and took only 10 seconds.
- Day 17 Part 2: Turned out to be pretty easy, just had to parameterize the min/max number of steps to 4-10. Running A\* got the answer in 31 seconds, could probably use some optimization but it worked. Then updated the modified A\* to use a priority queue and brought the runtime down to 2.5 seconds for part 1, 10 seconds for part 2.
- Day 19: Coming back to this now, Part 1 was easy to recreate. Parsing the rules was the trickiest part. Part 2 was a great application of the guideline to only calculate the number of combinations, not to calculate the combinations themselves! Although I had a frustrating bug where I was modifying a copy of the rules but later referencing the original. Simplifying the code helped to track that down, the solution runs in under 2ms.
- Day 21: This one really stumped me. Finally looked up the solution, to use the quadratic formula based on three known values to extrapolate the final value. Even then this had a rounding error, and I had to use the ceil of the value, not round.
- Day 22: My original solution was really close! But there was a bug where instead of considering all bricks that had disintegrated in the chain reaction, it was only considering the last round. So it didn't catch bricks that were supported by multiple other bricks of different heights. The fix was to accumulate the set of disintegrated bricks instead of just sending the latest set to the next round.
- Day 23: Simplified my working solution to part 1, but then got stuck for a while on part 2. My dfs approach worked on the test data but took much too long on the input. Peeked at the reddit thread and used the idea of simplifying the grid to a graph where each vertext represents a node in the grid where the path can branch, and the cost is the number of steps since the last branch. Then did a dfs over the simplified graph to find the max cost, and it worked! (Also looked at norvig's python notebook for a few hints on this approach)
